[Music]
what is up
youtube it's your girl evelyn and i am
back with the
season 4 episode 3 recap of winona earth
as always there will be spoilers so
proceed with caution
the gang is finally back home in
purgatory
but it seems they've jumped out of the
frying pan
and into the fire while doc and wynonna
try to figure out why people are
casually being hanged in the middle of
town
chrissy nedley daughter of the former
sheriff nedley
makes her first appearance since season
one and demands winona's head
chrissy accuses wynonna of murdering her
father
who as you'll remember was mostly alive
when wynonna left him in the care of
mercedes and took off from monument
and despite a stunning lack of evidence
chrissy
easily convinces a well-armed militia
to help her dole out a little vigilante
justice
but moments before winona's public
execution
the sheriff shows up and interrupts
not that sheriff or that one
definitely not that one sheriff
claiborne
is purgatory's newest lawman and he
insists
that wynonna must first be given a trial
he then
hauls her off to jail where she's forced
to share a cell
with casey an adorable half demon who
helps fill in some
missing gaps according to casey after
the town evacuation
hordes of demons began entering the
ghost river triangle in droves
and by the time the purgatory residents
returned
the demons were already nice and cozy
and
even set up a headquarters in the woods
somewhere near the magical staircase
and if that wasn't bad enough bbd
constructed a quarantine around the
triangle
humans are allowed free passage across
the border
but demons aren't speaking of demons
doc heads for the earp homestead to
fetch waverly and nicole
who have been adjusting to their reunion
in very different ways
after last episode's way hot stair bang
waverly is still floating on cloud nine
but nicole has already returned to the
ground
and so have her worries one of which
is a huge bigfoot-esque monster
who's been stalking the homestead for
months
when doc shows up nicole admits that the
last year and a half
have been utter chaos as for the old
gang
well jeremy's still alive but he and
nicole have lost touch
and robin is either dead or missing
it's also becoming clear that nicole's
18-month stint in purgatory
may have changed her in some worrying
ways
the gang decides the best way to help
wynonna
is to secure proof of her innocence so
doc
locates mercedes the last person who saw
nedley alive
unsurprisingly mercedes is making a
living by
masquerading as a vampire stripper at a
demon bar called the glory hole
mercedes tells doc that after wynonna
left
nedley's crab bite wound became all
smelly and oozy
and he eventually took off and headed
for the woods
doc wants mercedes to testify on
winona's behalf
but mercedes hasn't made it this far by
being stupid
she refuses to testify but she tells doc
that the bigfoot-esque monster in the
woods most likely ate nedley
and if doc can locate the monster maybe
he can find proof
of nedley's murder at the monster's
hands
meanwhile back at the sheriff's station
waverly has donned her
business casual red framed glasses
disguised
but it fails at tricking sheriff
claiborne into believing that she's
winona's lawyer not that it matters
because moments later
purgatory's newest magistrate the vapid
but
super attractive clio makes her entrance
and in a scene
straight out of idiocracy cleo announces
a
chili cook-off competition where one
lucky prisoner
will win a get out of jail free card
waverly wynonna and nicole get to work
on the chili
and we find out a little more about
those mysterious 18 months
nicole tells them that cleo literally
showed up one day
made herself magistrate and elected her
own sheriff
nicole would have put up more of a fight
but she had her hands full
with protecting the homestead searching
for the gang
and her unanticipated gig as a single
mom
in fact nicole is so worried about
rachel being eaten by the monster
that she leaves the cookout to go check
on her around that time
doc finds an abandoned delivery truck
full of liquor
headed for the glory hole except
something peeled back the roof of the
truck's cab
and ate the driver while doc is
contemplating his good fortune
the monster returns to the scene of the
crime and goes after doc
thankfully doc makes it back to the
homestead and nicole shoots at the
monster
temporarily scaring it off then
through some deductive reasoning
[Music]
doc and nicole conclude but the monster
is nedley
because in purgatory being bitten by
this
turns you into this also bigfoot nedley
has a serious aversion to kombucha
meanwhile back at the chile competition
cleo declares winona the winner
which seems super sketch because it is
the magistrate whisks wynonna away but
instead of freeing her cleo takes her
into the woods
hogties her and leaves her as monster
food
cleo stabs wynonna in the upper leg
to lure the monster with the scent of
blood and it works
thankfully the gang shows up in the nick
of time
waverly takes cleo out with her pimp
hand while
nicole and doc take on bigfoot nedley
with a rope
and a super soaker full of kombucha
and although cleo gets away the kombucha
somehow cures nedley it's science who
has no memory of his people-eating days
as a bigfoot after the world's longest
day
the gang can finally relax for doc
this means extorting the owner of the
glory hole for
access to a liquor delivery he's already
paid for
and for way hot this means getting
frisky
yet again except it's now become clear
that
nicole is suffering from ptsd
so instead of making love nicole and
waverly
patrol the homestead for monsters and
for
pop-up character chrissy nedley this
means leaving purgatory
because now that her father's alive
hanging people for his murder is
no longer a viable job prospect at
bbd's quarantine checkpoint chrissy is
stopped by
none other than ex-scooby gang member
jeremy
who seems to be back on black badge's
payroll
chrissy tells jeremy that wynonna is
back which is probably why
after walking into the barn wynonna
is immediately black badged and
that is it for the recap thank you guys
so much for watching
don't forget to subscribe for more
winona herb and i'll see you next week
you